## *React is a JavaScript library which is being built by Facebook Engineers. React helps us to create Single-Page applications in Frontend Development.*
<br>

## ***What is the difference between Library and Framework?***
### *Suppose we are working in JavaScript where we have Array specific Higher Order Methods such as Map, Filter & Reduce and we use them in our code to manipulate the given array. But we don't have to worry that how this Map method is working behind the scenes or we haven't written the code for this Map method by ourselves we are just using this method which means that the code for this Map method is written somewhere, Right? So we can consider it like a standard Library of JS where these predefined functions and methods are available. But we can also have many other libraries as well*
<br>

**Library** : ***Suppose in a Web Application we have to create an Image Carousel. Either we can write the entire code from scratch for this Carousel or we can use a JS library called "Swiper" which have the prewritten code and just by calling some of its function we can implement the Carousel in our application very easily. Similarly to make Single-Page Applications we have React.***

***So a Library is a piece of code which we can be use in our application. It takes minimum effors to use a Library in our code i.e. most of the time just by using a CDN link. Library provide us more control as compared to Framework Which means that we decides that where we have to call those given Library specific functions and where not. But Library alone can't built a full application. It needs several supports , for e.g. React does not have its own Router so we have to install it seperately. But when it comes to freedom Library provides us too much freedom. It just like staying in a Home where you have to follow less rules.***

**Framework** : *** Framework is not just a piece of code but it is a Software which we have to install in our system. Framework have full support for building a full-fledged application but you have to follow Framework specific rules. So unlike Library Freedom is very less in while working with Frameworks. Also the Inversion of Control is not in our hand it is the Framework which decides when and where to use our code/functions. So Framework is like a School 😃 where we get full support for our exams but we have to follow their rules.In Frameworks a proper Design Pattern and Architecture is available. So some ceratin sections are fixed where we have to write Business Logic, Designing and HTML Templates etc. Frameworks can Manage issues of Security, Maintanability, Sacalability and Migration very easily ***